Cool.
Now, obviously, if we clicked send, this would not work because we have not created this route yet.
So let's go do that within your text editor, within the route of your project.
I want you to jump into Rueter Dash API jazz right below our log in route.
Let's just add a new route.
So API router dot post quotes and the route would be slash create dash post after the quotes include
a comma and now we include a function.
But remember, we don't want strangers or guests to be able to create a post.
You must be a logged in registered user.
Now, you might remember in our original router file within our user controller, we set up a function
named must be logged in.
Right.
And if you are logged in, it will carry you on to the next function for this route.
So then we could say comma post controller dot api create.
But if you're not logged in, then this function will stop or end this request.
Right?
If you're not logged in, you'll never even get to this function.
Well, our original must be logged in.
Function only makes sense within the context of a web browser.
Right, because it's going to look for a cookie and session data and it's going to redirect you.
All of that is tightly coupled to the Web browser.
So instead, let's do this right at the beginning of its name.
Let's just say API and then we can capitalize the M and must OK.
And now we can just go create a new version of this middleware function.
And then once we do that, we can go create a new function in our post controller named API, create
one step at a time.
So right now, let's go ahead and save this file and let's jump into our user controller and set up
this function.
So within your project folder, look in the controllers folder and jump into user controller Gorgias
within the user controller.
We just want to create a new function.
So to create a new function, let's say exports DOT API must be logged in, set.
That's equal a function.
And within the function parentheses, we want to give it three parameters instead of two.
So request response.
And next now within the body of this function, let's set up try and catch blocks.
So try curly brackets dropdown in between and then after the closing, try block at a catch block.
So catch curly brackets within the try block.
This is what we want to try, let's say JWT and let's look inside it for a method named Verify.
Within these parentheses we give verify to arguments.
So Acom will be the first argument is a token that you want to verify, right?
So we want to verify or determine if the incoming token in the request is malicious and made up and
fake, or if it's a real trustworthy token that our server did indeed generate.
So instead of the a placeholder we would say request body dot token.
And then the second argument instead of the B placeholder, this is just our JWT secret phrase.
So instead of B, we would say process DOT, N.V., dot and then all uppercase JWT secret.
OK, now if the verified method determines that this is a valid token that our server generated, it's
going to return with the payload or data that was stored in the token.
So remember, in our token we had an object with just the one property of underscore ID.
So if that's what this is going to return with, we don't want that value to just float in outer space.
We'd want to hold on to it.
So at the start of this line, let's say request dot API user, I just made up this property name,
but let's say equals whatever this returns, OK?
And then still within the tribe block, but on a new line, let's just call next.
Right.
So then in the next function for this route, we would be able to access this request API user and that
way we could grab the user ID for the current user.
OK, now that is if the incoming token is valid.
If it's not valid, then the verify method is going to throw an error.
So that's where our catch block comes into play.
So if someone's sending a fake token, we would just want to respond.
So response that JSON and say sorry, you must.
Provide a valid token at this point, let's go ahead and save this file and now let's go work on the
next function for this route to refresh your memory.
If I jump back into router API, that would be post controller and then we need to create a function
named API create.
So right now in your controllers folder, jump into post controller dot J.S. within post controller.
We can save a bit of typing by just duplicating our existing create function.
So find the line that begins with exports dot create equals and I'm just going to select and copy that
entire function and then right below it, just paste in a duplicated copy and then let's change the
name of this function to API Uppercase C for create, OK.
And then we just need to make a few adjustments.
So on this first line where we say let post equal, we can leave this first argument the same, but
we do need to change the second argument.
Right.
So this is where we want to pass along the user ID so we are no longer using sessions.
So let's get rid of this second argument and instead say request dot API user.
So this would be that object of data or the payload that was stored in the token.
And then let's look inside it for underscore idee.
OK, now from here, the post model will decide if the post is valid, right.
If it has a title and body field, so on and so forth.
So if the post is successfully created, our then function will run.
So we no longer want to show a flash message or redirect the user.
So let's get rid of these two lines within our then function and instead let's just send back a bit
of JSON.
So response that JSON and just say congrats.
If we were truly building out an API, we'd want to include the new idea of the post that was just created.
But for now, this will do the job OK within our catch function.
Let's get rid of these two lines and instead just say response JSON.
And actually instead of the quotes, we could just respond with our array of errors.
Right, that our model is going to create for us.
So we could just say errors.
OK, let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So in Postman, remember, we are sending a new request to slash API slash create post within the body
of our request.
We have a bit of JSON with title body and token.
Let's go ahead and send this request.
If I scroll down, we can see the server responded with congrats.
Let's go see if that truly worked.
So in the Web browser, you can see I'm not logged in with any account, but if in the address bar I
go visit the profile for the Brad user.
So slash profile slash Brad.
Awesome.
The newest post by Brad is my new post through the API.
And if I click on it, in addition to the title, we do see the body content.
However, if I go back into post man and adjust my body JSON maybe to not include a title property and
send off the request.
Now the response from the server is you must provide a title and perhaps most importantly, if I add
that title back in, but I do not include a token or better yet, if I do include a token.
But it's not a valid token, so maybe just even change one character.
So just literally change the very first character of the token and it will no longer be valid.
So if I send that request, sorry, you must provide a valid token.
Perfect.
And this brings us to the number one question that I think you might have right now for the majority
of this video.
You've probably been yelling at the screen wondering how in the world are we trusting this token?
Right, because it's not like sessions where the cookie just stored the session identifier, but then
the actual session data was stored on our server.
Right.
And we know that our server is a trusted environment.
Whereas with this token based approach, remember, if we go back into our user controller file and
find our API log in function, remember when we call JWT signed, we are actually storing data in the
token.
And then when the user sends that token back to us, we're actually using and trusting and believing
this data.
Now, at first glance, this seems to violate everything we've learned up until this point in the course,
right.
Normally you can't implicitly trust what users send you.
However, this is the beauty of JSON Web tokens.
We only ever trust this payload data if we've determined the token is valid.
This is why.
We're not just sending the data in the token, we are signing it or giving it a signature with our unique
or secret phrase, this makes it nearly cryptographically impossible for a malicious user to manipulate
or try to edit their token to have someone else's user ID.
Right, because within our API must be logged in function when we call JWT verify this will have no
problems determining fake or manipulated tokens.
Right.
It's going to check to see if the signature is a match.
If it is a match, that means it's a token that we ourselves signed and generated, which in that case
we can implicitly trust the data payload from the token.
So now the question is, why is this a big deal?
Or I should say, why are JSON Web tokens so popular?
Well, it's because they allow for something that is called stateless authentication, meaning we don't
need to keep track of session data on our server.
And this can greatly simplify and speed up what's going on on our server.
So if we don't need to store session data in memory or in a database, that's just one less thing that
our server needs to do.
It's just one less thing we need to keep track of.
So big picture, we don't need to keep track of session data because the tokens contain all of the data
we need to authenticate and identify requests.
Now, this stateless authentication approach is great and in my opinion, for an API, it's a perfect
fit.
But that doesn't mean tokens are a perfect fit for everything.
Now, I'm not going to get into the politics or the debate of sessions versus tokens because largely
I think that whole debate is misguided.
I think both sessions and tokens each have their pros and cons and in different situations, I think
one would make sense over the other.
The reason I bring this up is because there are people online who would have you believe that going
forward everything should use tokens and nothing should ever use sessions, which in my opinion, that
is completely misguided.
In fact, if we look at the top Fortune 500 companies or even the top Fortune 100 companies, most of
their websites still indeed use sessions.
So this is just my opinion.
But there are certain situations and applications where I would use tokens and there are other situations
where I would use sessions.
Now, I'm not going to jump into a fully in-depth list of the pros and cons of tokens and sessions.
I'll just say that I don't think you should have a dogmatic approach.
And if this topic interests you, I encourage you to Google for tokens versus sessions or tokens and
sessions, pros and cons and do a bit of your own research really within the context of this course,
all that matters is that you understand both approaches and you know how to implement both approaches.
I'm not here to force you to use one or the other.
In my opinion, a good developer has both in their toolbox and can use either.
OK, that's enough for this ramble.
In our next video, we are going to set up the API route for deleting one of your existing posts and
will also set up a bonus route where you can receive an array of posts for a particular author.
And we will learn how to open up that route so that other domains can easily connect to it.
So we'll go into code pattern and practice programmatically loading posts by an author like Browed or
Barks A Lot or your user account, which should really drive home the point that an API is about opening
up your data and making it universally available.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next video.